Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to start working on our generic heading block.
Let's jump right into the action.
So in our previous lesson, we set up this basic banner block.
Now we want to create a new custom block that you can nest inside the banner.
So to get started, I want us to jump in to our functions dot ap file in functions dot b scroll down
to the very bottom.
So remember, this is where we wrote the code that registered our banner block.
Well, in this chapter, we're going to create a lot of custom blocks, and we don't want to have to
repeat this code for each block.
Right.
That would get super repetitive.
So what I like to do is create a reusable class and then we can just leverage it once for each block
that we want to register.
So here's what I would do.
Maybe at the very bottom, let's add a new line of code and let's say class, and you can make up any
name you want.
I'm going to make up a name of J as X block curly brackets within our class here.
Let's have a function with the very, very specific name of underscore.
Underscore.
Construct.
Parentheses.
Curly brackets.
We want to use this exact name because we'll look for a method or function with this name.
When you create a new object from this class.
So for example, below all of this class code at the very, very bottom.
Now we could say something like we want a new instance of J as X block semicolon.
Now, in these parentheses, when we're instantiating a new J block instance, you can just give it
a value.
So let's give it a string of text called banner.
Okay.
And then right below that line, imagine we would also say we want a new instance of X block.
Call that.
Give it a string value of quotes, maybe generic heading.
Okay.
And then the idea is this is really the only value that would be dynamic.
So if we think about this code that we don't want to repeat over and over, really the only thing that's
going to change or be dynamic is the name of our JavaScript file.
The name of our block.
Right, the value that we're providing here.
So now let's just build out our class.
So first of all, in our construct function within these parentheses, let's have a parameter name at
dollar sign name.
Okay.
Then in our construct function, let's have a property where we store that value so that we can access
it from any method in the class.
So dollar sign this arrow symbol.
So dash greater than, let's call it, name equals and then just pull in this value dollar sign name
semicolon on a new line.
Let's now add an action.
So add action so a comma be.
The event that we want to hook on to is init.
And then what function do we want to call?
Well, we haven't created this method yet, but we can create it in about 10 seconds from now.
So instead of the placeholder quotes, let's make up a name of on init call now within our class but
below this construct function.
So right here let's just create a function with that name.
So function on init parentheses, curly brackets.
And now we can just borrow all of this code.
So up in our banner block function, the code that we don't want to repeat over and over starts selecting
from WP Register script down to the three lines of code for register block type.
Just copy those lines in on.
Image pasted in.
Okay.
And now really all we need to do is hollow out the names so that they're not specific and instead use
whatever value was passed into our class.
So that's this dollar sign name or actually we made it available from this property.
So for example, on WP Register script, let's get rid of this hardcoded name that's specific to a banner.
So instead for that first argument, it would just be dollar sign this arrow symbol name.
Okay then if we scroll over a little bit to the right, we wouldn't want a hard code to load banner.
Yes, we would want this to be, you know, the wild card variable named Dot Jess.
Now, there are a hundred different ways that you could work with concatenating the text together.
But here's what I would do.
If we use double quotes for this little bit of text instead of single quotes.
So I just swap those two double quotes.
Well, now we can do this.
Wrap the word banner, the part that we want to hollow out, wrap that in curly brackets, and then
in the curly brackets, hollow that out.
And now we can just say dollar sign this arrow symbol name.
Cool.
Let's keep hollowing out the next few lines of code.
So our block name, that's always going to be our namespace, but we don't want to.
Hard code this banner.
So just do the same thing because these are using double quotes.
I'm just going to get rid of banner curly brackets.
Dollar sign this arrow symbol name.
Let's do the same thing here.
We don't need to worry about concatenating anything here, so we don't need quotes at all.
We can literally just pull in dollar sign this arrow symbol name cool at this point to test this out.
Here's what we're going to do.
Scroll up a little bit and I want you to just completely delete all of our banner block code.
So get rid of the entire banner block function.
Get rid of this line where we said add action and net banner block.
Cool.
So now we just have our reusable class and then we're leveraging it.
One last detail before we save this file.
I did lead you astray on this line of code.
This is not the correct syntax to point to and execute a method.
So for the second argument here, when we're saying add action and it hollow out that second argument,
instead we give it an array.
So square brackets, we give it a comma, be the first thing you give it is the object or the class
itself.
So dollar sign this.
And then the second thing you give it is quotes the name of the method.
So on init you might remember we used this syntax over and over again in our plug in development chapter.
Anyways, to test this out to make sure it's working, let's just give it a save.
And then back in the template editor screen if we refresh.
Perfect.
You'll know that you wrote that OP correctly if your ban or block still exists and it's still working.
Cool.
So at this point, remember, we also leveraged this same class for generic headings.
So now we can just go create a JavaScript file with this name and that's really all we need to do.
So check this out in our sidebar in the Our Blocks folder.
Just create a new file, name it generic heading JS Right.
Or whatever you chose here as your value.
Hopefully you're following along with me just so we stay on the same page, but generic heading, generic
heading.
JS In order to save a bit of typing, why don't we just borrow the contents of Banner Dot JS?
So just select everything in banner, copy it pasted into the new empty generic heading and now let's
just hollow it out a bit.
So we're not going to need inner blocks up here at the very top x, let's customize the block name.
So we want the same namespace, but instead of slash banner this would be slash generic heading.
Let's change the title value generic heading for the edit component.
We definitely don't need this.
Use me later constant so we can get rid of that in terms of what we want to return.
Well, for now let's just have a div that says hello.
So div hello in terms of what we want to save.
Well, again, just for a quick test to make sure that everything's working, let's just return a div
or a paragraph.
Doesn't really matter that says this is our heading block.
Let's give that a save.
And now to truly test this out, we do need to adjust our package JSON file.
So right now jump into package dot JSON on this start task, we just want to point towards that new
generic heading JavaScript file.
You can tell the WordPress package to use as many files as you want as an entry point.
So at the end of this line, let's just add on a space and say, you know, also look in the our blocks
folder slash for generic heading JS, that's all we need to do for our save and then just start up that
task.
So NPM run start.
Cool.
So now back on the template screen refresh.
We won't be able to add it to our banner yet because remember, it's restricting which blocks you're
allowed to add.
But if you try to add it outside of the ban or block for now, so adblock block and if I start searching
for generic there it is generic heading.
You see the word hello if we save it and then look at the front end, we should see that bit of placeholder
text.
Yep.
This is our heading block.
Cool.
So now all we need to do is adjust our banner block to only allow our custom block type of generic heading.
So do this with me within our our blocks folder.
Jump into banner dot J.S. down.
For me it's around line number 27.
But we see inner blocks allowed blocks equals and then it's an array well just hollow out the array.
And for now we just want one value of quotes.
And then remember our namespace is our block theme forward slash generic heading.
That's the only block type we want to allow for now.
In the future we can add more, but if we give that a save and then go back into the template editor
and refresh.
If we try to add a new block in the banner, it only lets us add that generic heading.
Why don't we give ourselves a clean slate?
So if you just click anywhere on the banner itself and then hit the backspace key on your keyboard,
and then I'll also delete this generic headline here.
But now the point is, if we start fresh and add in our banner block, search for banner.
There it is.
Okay.
And then if you try to add a piece of content into the empty banner block, you can see if you even
hover over.
The only option here is add generic heading.
Cool.
In our next lesson, we'll actually start building out the generic heading block type.
For this lesson, I really just wanted to get the repetitive AP solution out of the way.
Let me go ahead and save this template.
Also, one final detail, totally optional, but back in, for example, banner dot g's up at the very
top.
Remember, we used this import syntax if you wanted to, you could use this import syntax for the register
block type function as well.
So for example, you don't have to do this, but you could say import curly brackets and look for register
block type from and the package name would be at symbol WordPress slash blocks.
Right.
And then on this line of code, you wouldn't need the WP dot blocks, dot get rid of that.
It would literally just be using this directly if you wanted to.
You could do the same thing in our generic heading JS file, so I would just copy this line of code
up at the top of generic heading, just paste it in and then you can get rid of the WP dot blocks dot
just like this.
If we give that a save and also save banner JS, we can go test it out.
So if we refresh our template edit screen.
Cool.
Everything still works wonderfully.
It's going to bring this quick lesson to a close.
In our next lesson, we're going to learn how to turn this into a rich text field that not only looks
stylistically exactly like our fictional university headlines, but also takes advantage of the word
press.
Bold and italic icons.
In other words, it will look like our custom headline, but it will behave just like a native rich
text.
WordPress BLOCK Editor Field.
Let's keep our momentum rolling and I'll see you then.